Always remember to write the usage code first 
before acutally adding anything to your API.
Because who knows what will be the requirements
in the future. So, don't preplan only write code when you need it 
don't get bogged down and write proper and the future-proof code 
the first time. When solving a problem think of nothing but the 
problem. Don't think about code quality, performance, design, api or 
anything, just write whatever comes to your mind
.
First use then reuse, often times what happens is you start to 
code and your are writing something like an input system, you've 
never done it before. So, you now have problem that is the input 
system. Lets say you started writing code for the input system if 
your are a preplanner and oop guy you will be tempting to create 
a class InputSystem and a bunch of couple other structs. You
will thinking at this time what are the things to put in InputSystem
class, how it is going to communicate with other classes. what should 
be it's private member. Do I need a factory for InputSystem generator. 
And all crappy stuff will come into your mind and you'll completely forget
about the problem that you are trying to solve and instead you'll be adding
piles and piles of uneccessary preplaned code that may or may not be needed.
The better way of doing this is to take your problem, write whatever comes to 
your mind about solving that problem without any thinking at all, no performance, no 
deisgn, no clean code, no abstractions or any buzzword. what you really should be thinking at 
that moment is how I can solve this problem fast and what is the easiest and fast way to
write the solution. Once you did that you'll know exactly what steps does the CPU has to 
take in order to solve your problem. The good thing about this is it goes deep. On the other
hand the oop code will be tied around objects and you will start considering your problems as 
objects and most of the time you'll never figure out the steps that your cpu needs to take. 
This is crucial to optimisation. Without knowing and getting in the web of objects what steps
the cpu needs to take it's always hard to optimise. The thing oop promotes this 

First Abstract and fit this thing in the nasty web(design) -> Solve the Problem -> Optimise

the abstraction part here takes a lot of work and thinking which could be put in other things
but who knows while writing this code.

The way I learned to do is:

First solve the problem in easiest way -> Add layers(connect the code into design, abstraction
and optimisation)

this way you'll always produce isolated, lossely coupled pieces of code that will be always
easy to maintain.

The other thing is never pile up uneccessary layers on your solutions without coming at 
point where you have to do it otherwise the code won't work and optimisation and 
code becomes hairy and hard to maintian, then you can pull out common 
stuff and effectively reuse, instead of writing reusable code at the first go 
without knowing who this code is going to used, in that case add the layers.

Once again first use, then reuse.

If you simply remember how to do something, 
then all you can do is use it the same way over and over, 
but if you understand how it works, you can reason about it. 
Once you can reason about something in your mind 
you can contemplate why it is the way it is, 
you can apply your entire creative mind to making the most of it, 
and you can implement and question improvement – you own it intellectually.
